# sql-challenge
Data analysis bootcamp challenge week 9.
This project contains three parts: 
1. data modeling
2. data engineering
3. data analysis

All csv files used for this project are presented at the top level of the repository. In the folder "EmployeeSQL" there is the table schema SQL file, the entity relationship diagram, and the main SQL analysis. 

The analysis covers several different types of query techniques. The queries explored are listed below in order that they appear in the main analysis. 
1. List of all employees by employee number, first name, last name, sex, and salary.
2. List of all employees who were hired in 1986 including their first name, last name, and hire date.
3. List of all managers by their first name, last name, department number, department name, and employee number.
4. List of all employees by their first name, last name, department number, department name, and employee number.
5. List of all employees whose first name is Hercules and last name starts with the letter B, including their first name, last name, and sex.
6. List of all sales department employees including their first name, last name, and employee number.
7. List of all sales department employees and development department employees including their first name, last name, employee number, and department name.
8. List of the frequency of each employees last name in descending order.

The data for this project was generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
